{"id": "0901.4583", "output": "We consider a Georgi-Glashow model conformally coupled to gravity. The model includes a triplet of scalar fields and SO(3) non-abelian gauge fields. However, the usual mass term is forbidden by the conformal symmetry and is replaced by R-2/6 i.e. the Ricci scalar con- formally coupled to the scalar fields. Our solutions have a non-singular core representing localized soliton solutions of the magnetic monopole type in an asymptotically anti-de-Sitter (AdS) space-time. The metric for the spheri- cally symmetric case is Schwarzschild-AdS outside the core of the monopole and we obtain numerical solutions for the scalar fields, the gauge fields and the metric both inside and outside the core of the monopole.\n"}
{"id": "0904.0399", "output": "A structural model of Pb chains on Si(335)-Au/Pb surface has been proposed, based on first principles density functional theory calculations. The model features single Pb atom per Si(335) unit cell placed near the Au chain. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. This picture is consistent with the STM topography data, and also confirmed by simulated STM topography measurements. The calculated band structure for the present model clearly shows one-dimensional character, i.e. a strong dispersion in the direction parallel to the steps and perpendicular to the steps.\n"}
{"id": "0907.1040", "output": "The capacitance of graphene nanoribbons (GNRs) embedded in an insulating substrate is investigated by means of analytical and numerical calculations. The analytical approach is based on the tight-binding p-orbital Hamiltonian within the Hartree approximation. The results of the analytical calculations are in a good qualitative agreement with the exact calculations. However, there are some important discrepancies. In order to resolve these discrepancies we investigate the self-consistent electronic structure and charge density distribution in the nanoribbons and relate the above discrepancy to the inability of the simple electrostatic model to capture the classical gate electrostatics of the GNRs. In turn, the failure of the classical electrostatics is traced to the quantum mechanical effects leading to the significant modification of the self-consistent charge distribution in comparison to the non-interacting electron description.\n"}
{"id": "0909.0592", "output": "We derive a new expression of dynamical friction that applies to a general type of motion and depends on the perturber's motion and the boundary conditions but not the density perturbation. In particular, dynamical friction is shown to be non-local as it depends on the whole trajectory of the perturber. In effect a constant velocity perturber raises a gravitational wake in the ambient medium that is symmetric with respect to it and truncated by the sonic shockwave. This truncation defines two regions, one that lacks front-back symmetry located behind the perturber, and one with front-back symmetry around the perturber that becomes the largest region inside the wavefront for velocities smaller than half the sound speed. When acceleration is taken into account, the amplitude of dynamical friction may change with respect to the value derived assuming a constant velocity because in modelling the force on an accelerated perturber as that on a constant velocity perturber, one assumes that the gravitational wake produced by accelerated motion is similar to that of uniform motion. This would intuitively imply that dynamical friction on an accelerated perturber should be much larger than the value derived assuming uniform motion for subsonic accelerating perturbers.\n"}
{"id": "1303.7474", "output": "A general framework for independent vector analysis (IVA) is presented. IVA is an extension of the independent component analysis (ICA) model. IVA assumes a source within one dataset is dependent on at most one source in another dataset while sources within a dataset are mutually independent (as in ICA). IVA reduces to performing ICA individually on each dataset when sources possess no dependence across datasets. Naturally, IVA can be achieved by maximizing the likelihood function, which is shown to be the same in practice as minimizing the entropy rate (subject to a regularity term). The likelihood function has an associated Fisher information matrix (FIM) of a form that we describe in Section VI. The FIM is used in deriving the identification conditions and performance bounds. The IVA case when samples are iid is shown to have a performance bound that can be expressed compactly for the very large class of multivariate elliptical distributions. The performance bounds are compared to the performance achieved by two previously published algorithms for IVA.\n"}
{"id": "1308.1740", "output": "Star formation histories (SFHs) of nearby galaxies can be estimated by analysis of their resolved stellar content, as many features present in a color-magnitude diagram (CMD) provide evidence of star formation at speific ages. Relative strengths of age-related CMD features can be used to estimate the star formation rates (SFRs) at those ages, leading to an overall estimate of the SFH. While significant work has been dedicated to the derivation and implementation of SFH measurement techniques, estimation of uncertainties in SFH measurements has been given considerably less attention. While significant work has been dedicated to the derivation and implementation of SFH measurement techniques, estimation of uncertainties in SFH measurements has been given considerably less attention. On the topic of systematic uncertainties due to isochrone physics, Dolphin (2012) proposed a technique for estimating the size of these uncertainties. However, an unstanding of random uncertainties is equally critical, especially when analyzing less-populated CMDs where random uncertainties are likely to dominate. The present study evaluates the common approach used for this problem and several alternatives.\n"}
{"id": "1401.2564", "output": "We present lower limits on the gravitino lifetime and the corresponding upper limits on the amount of R-parity violation that were derived from observations of cosmic-ray antiprotons with the PAMELA experiment. We also compare the obtained lifetime limits to constraints derived from gamma-ray and neutrino observations.\n"}
{"id": "1407.1693", "output": "Luminous Blue Variables (LBVs) show a variety of types of variability, ranging from giant eruptions to microvariability. In this work, we investigate the effect of radial pulsations on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LBVs. We find that radial pulsations can have a significant effect on the properties of LB\n"}
{"id": "1601.00251", "output": "A high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity with a frequency-doubled green laser for precision Compton polarimetry at Jefferson Lab (JLab) is described. The electron beam enters the Fabry-Perot cavity as a circularly polarized photon beam and is detected by a photon Hall detector located at the center of the Fabry-Perot cavity. The photon Hall detector measures the Compton scattering asymmetry between the primary electron beam and the secondary photon beam. The photon Hall detector is coupled to the Fabry-Perot cavity by a third group of elements that allow the beam polarization to be extracted from the measured Compton scattering asymmetry. A frequency-doubled green laser is used to enhance the laser power by a factor of 3.76 and to extract the electron beam polarization from the measured Compton scattering asymmetry.\n"}
{"id": "cond-mat9805194", "output": "A mathematical model for the behavior of individuals under the influence of a social field is developed. This model is based on Boltzmann-like equations and includes spontaneous (or externally induced) behavioral changes and behavioral changes by pair interactions of individuals. These changes are described by transition rates. They reflect the results of mental and psychical processes, which could be simulated with the help of Osgood and Tannenbaum's (1955) congruity principle, Heider's (1946) balance theory or Festinger's dissonance theory. The ansatz used for the transition rates distinguishes imitative and avoidance processes, and assumes utility maximization by a variant of the multinomial logit model.\n"}
{"id": "gr-qc0308085", "output": "We present a study of the accuracy that can be expected for the characterization of the noise in the LISA detector once it has been placed in its heliocentric orbit. Specifically, we calculate in the low frequency regime the optimal approximations for the spectra of the noise affecting the interferometric combinations sensitive to gravitational waves, by relying only on all the possible cross-spectra between the interferometric combinations that are sensitive to gravitational radiation and the symmetrized-Sagnac combination,. The rational behind this is that  couples very weakly to gravitational radiation while it is affected by the same instrumental noises as the other combinations. These approximations give a lower bound on the error that can be achieved by estimators which make no prior assumptions about the characteristics of the various noise sources.\n"}
{"id": "hep-ph9911243", "output": "We study the effects of large CP-violating soft phases on electroweak baryogenesis in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model. We show that the large CP-violating soft phases can significantly enhance the possibilty of baryon asymmetry production during the electroweak phase transition. In particular, we find that the value of the produced baryon asymmetry can be pushed up to n_B/s up to 115 GeV.\n"}
{"id": "physics0412075", "output": "The dissociation spectrum of H+_2 from a short, intense infrared laser pulse is studied using a two-state approximation. The vibrational structure of the H+_2 molecule is modelled using a two-state approximation and takes account of the laser pulse profile. Fragment-ion coincidence measurements that isolate the dissociation and dissociative ionization processes are made feasible and realistic. The results for dissociation energies are in excellent agreement with the observations.\n"}
{"id": "1202.0845", "output": "The Chew-Mandelstam energy-dependent parametrization for the hadronic T matrix is used to fit the pion photoproduction data over the center-of-mass energy range from the near-threshold region to about 2.5 GeV, including resonances through the fourth resonance region. Single-energy solutions are also generated, which fit the data over narrow energy bins assuming phase information obtained from the Chew-Mandelstam energy-dependent parametrization.\n"}
{"id": "1601.00066", "output": "Quasi-satellite dynamics in formation flight is studied in terms of the Clohessy-Wiltshire equations. The force between two co-orbital bodies can be either repulsive or attractive. In the case of two satellites the force between the satellites can be mimicked using ion thrusters. Both an attractive force _1/_2 and repulsive constant force _1/_2 produce similar effects, which may look somewhat unexpected. In the case of two satellites the force between the satellites can be mimicked using ion thrusters. Both an attractive force _1/_2 and repulsive constant force _1/_2 produce similar effects, which may look somewhat unexpected. In the case of two satellites the force between the satellites can be mimicked using ion thrusters. Both an attractive force _1/_2 and repulsive constant force _1/_2 produce similar effects, which may look somewhat unexpected. In the case of two satellites the force between the satellites can be mimicked using ion thrusters. Both an attractive force _1/_2 and repulsive constant force _1/_2 produce similar effects, which may look somewhat unexpected. In the case of two satellites the force between the satellites can be mimicked using ion\n"}
{"id": "1106.1396", "output": "We investigate the evolution of the Glasma instability in the framework of the Color Glass Condensate (CGC). The CGC is a QCD framework that takes into account the saturation effect in the gluon distribution function. The CGC is formulated in terms of classical field equations, and the initial condition just above the forward light-cone (i.e. at =0+) for the classical field that appears at lowest order in the CGC description can be nicely formulated in the Bjorken (expanding) coordinates. We show that the initial dynamics obeys a linear dependence on the wavenumber of the self-interacting modes, and that the fastest seeds of the instability are the smallest and the strongest in a wide range of wavenumbers. We also confirm the presence of a Kolmogorov spectrum in the evolution of the Glasma.\n"}
{"id": "PMC4426942", "output": "OBJECTIVE To identify potential patient- and procedure-related risk factors for post- endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) pancreatitis (PEP) in the Iranian population. MATERIALS AND METHODS During a four-year period (2008\u20132012), 780 patients who underwent ERCP in a tertiary care hospital were analyzed in this prospective study. The patients were referred from different parts of Iran, which enhances the ability to analyze the findings for the Iranian population. Exclusion criteria were abnormal erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) before the procedure, pre-ERCP hyperamylasemia, and difficult or failed biliary cannulation. RESULTS PEP was diagnosed in 780 patients (3.3\n"}
{"id": "PMC5192341", "output": "The aim of this study was to explore the vascular and cardiac changes of osteoprotegerin (OPG) and TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) in experimental models of dyslipidemia and diabetes. A total of 12 male C57BL/6J (CNT) mice and 24 male apolipoprotein E null (ApoE/) mice on a C57BL/6J background, aged 6 weeks, were studied for 14 weeks. At 6 weeks of age, ApoE/ mice were further randomized to saline (ApoE) or streptozotocin (ApoE + DM), which were delivered intraperitoneally in five consecutive daily doses. The daily dose of streptozotocin (STZ) was 55 mg/kg of body weight. After one week, blood glucose was checked and only the mice with blood glucose levels greater than 15 mM were included in the ApoE + DM group. At 6 weeks of age, the animals were anesthetized with an intraperitoneal injection of thiobutabarbital sodium (60 mg/kg body weight) and sacrificed by exsanguination via cardiac puncture. Circulating OPG and TRAIL levels were measured in sera and in half\n"}
{"id": "PMC4847162", "output": "Objectives: Inverted digital images are used for various purposes in dentistry such as the measurement of bone loss due to periodontal disease and localization of the mandibular canal and mental foramen. This study aimed to compare the diagnostic value of unprocessed (PSP) and inverted digital images for detection of peri-implant defects using Scanora software. Materials and Methods: A total of 30 implant placement sites including 10 control sites, 10 sites with 0.425mm peri-implant space and 10 sites with 0.725mm peri-implant space were created. The SICace\u00ae screw implants (3.4mm/14.5mm; cylindrical parallel walled) were placed in the marked areas. All fixtures measuring 3.414.5mm (The SICace\u00ae screw implants 3.4mm/14.5mm; cylindrical parallel walled) were placed into the osteotomy sites at the level of the superior border of the rib (bone level) and cover screws were inserted. Periapical radiographs were obtained from the same bone segment over the same day. Four oral maxillofacial radiologists evaluated the inverted and unprocessed digital images for the presence of peri-implant defects. The sensitivity and specificity of the two imaging modalities were compared using the independent t-test. Results: Based on the results, the sensitivity and specificity of the two imaging modalities\n"}
{"id": "PMC3065795", "output": "Background: Folic acid has been used for targeting drugs to cancer cells. In the present study, folic acid was coupled on the surface of Fe3O4 for selective binding to cancer cells and immobilized on the surfaces of magnetic nanoparticles, to disperse particles and improve their cell internalization and target cancer cells, respectively. Methods: Folic acid was coupled on the surface of Fe3O4 for selective binding to cancer cells and immobilized on the surfaces of magnetic nanoparticles, to disperse particles and improve their cell internalization and target cancer cells, respectively. The apoptotic effects of Ma-Fol-modified Fe3O4 nanoparticles were determined in a 5RP7 (H-ras-transformed rat embryonic fibroblasts) and in a NIH/3T3 control cell line (normal mouse embryonic fibroblasts) by flow cytometry and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Results: Folic acid was coupled on the surface of Fe3O4 for selective binding to cancer cells and immobilized on the surfaces of magnetic nanoparticles, to disperse particles and improve their cell internalization and target cancer cells, respectively. The apoptotic effects of Ma-Fol-modified Fe3O4 nanoparticles were determined in a 5RP7 (H-ras-transformed rat embryonic fibroblasts) and in a NIH/3T\n"}
{"id": "PMC4017903", "output": "Pemphigus is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized by blisters and erosions on the skin or mucosal membranes or both. Steroids are still the mainstay of treatment, usually used at high doses initially to get the disease under control and then in conjunction with a steroid-sparing agent for maintenance. Because of the side effects associated with long-term systemic corticosteroids such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, and ocular complications, a lot of the recent research in pemphigus has been directed at finding the optimal steroid-sparing agent. Though many treatments have been tried in the management of pemphigus, often demonstrating clinical benefit in individual case reports and case series, the evidence supporting their use has not been confirmed in randomized controlled trials. This is due to the rarity of the disease in most countries where RCTs have been performed and difficulty in recruiting patients, resulting in underpowered studies. A recent Cochrane Review comparing treatments for pemphigus found significant heterogeneity amongst the RCTs with respect to the study designs, primary outcome measures, and therapeutic end-points. To solve this problem of variation between studies, a panel of international bullous experts convened on many occasions to form a consensus paper on the definitions of disease and therapeutic end-points for pemphigus\n"}
{"id": "PMC1693775", "output": "Objectives To quantify the variation in tumor response of pulmonary metastases of solid tumors of varied histology in individual consecutive patients that were submitted to CT studies in order to evaluate response to chemotherapy. Patients and methods We prospectively evaluated two consecutive chest CT scans of patients with the diagnosis of solid tumor and pulmonary metastases receiving systemic chemotherapy and being routinely evaluated for tumor response. We included in this study 41 chemotherapy response evaluations in 33 patients (20 women and 13 men), with ages ranging from 14 to 81 years (median 46 years). In eight patients a second response evaluation was obtained. We submitted each pulmonary nodule individually, as if it were a solitary metastasis, as well as all the nodules of the same patient combined, to both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and compared the response evaluations in each setting. Results The Kappa index for intra-individual variation in tumor response of pulmonary metastases was 0.90. By taking into consideration the sum of all measurable nodules, 100\n"}
{"id": "PMC3334523", "output": "Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) are the most widely used non-invasive neuroimaging modalities for mapping brain circuitry at the system level, and thus also the primary tools of the Human Connectome Project. The problem with images of the brain acquired in vivo with MRI and DTI is that they are limited in both resolution and contrast. The data needs to be averaged across many subjects who represent broad demographic or clinical groups in order to extract significant measures. In practice, it is not possible with MRI to localize the exact borders of neighboring neuroanatomical structures and identify the underlying histological features on which radiologic images depend. The challenges in creating a comprehensive histological model of the human brain that matches the scope and usability of MRI population-based templates, including the proposed Connectome, are primarily logistical. To begin with, any study that aims at examining cellular-level features in a brain depends on the expiration of the subject, and consequently neuroanatomical studies have been confined to those few cases where autopsies were prescribed because of clinical or legal concerns or to individuals who enrolled in tissue donation programs. The main goal of this study is to illustrate the importance of combining MRI and large-scale digital histology in neuroimaging studies of brain connectivity and\n"}
{"id": "PMC3840919", "output": "The time integral of the gating or sensing current as a function of voltage (V) is the displaced charge Q(V), normally called the Q-V curve. V M is easily estimated from the Q-V curve, but Q max must be obtained with other methods because, as we will show here, it is not directly derived from the Q-V curve in the general case. Particularly, we will discuss here the use of a two-state Boltzmann distribution for this purpose. Our intention is to demonstrate that this commonly used method to estimate the charge per molecule is inaccurate and likely to give a lower bound of the moving charge times the fraction of the field.\n"}
{"id": "PMC5360997", "output": "[Purpose] This study aimed to determine and compare the most common dominant affective temperaments in ankylosing spondylitis patients and in a healthy control group using the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego Auto Questionnaire and to examine the relationship in ankylosing spondylitis patients between existing depression and anxiety levels and levels of pain, disease activity, and quality of life and the dominant affective temperament. [Subjects and Methods] Fifty-one patients diagnosed with axial spondiloartropathy and forty-two age- and gender-matched control subjects were included in this study. Baseline assessments were completed by trained investigators using identical questionnaires that included demographic information (age, gender, and education), disease duration, medications (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, anti-tumor necrosis factor), serum C-reactive protein level, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, pain by visual analog scale, and measurements for disease activity, functional status, psychological status, health assessment, and affective temperament. Ankylosing spondylitis Disease Activity Index and Bath Spondylitis Activity Index were used to determine the AS activity status. [Results] There was no significant difference in temperament scores between the AS patients and the control group. There was a positive\n"}
{"id": "PMC2764042", "output": "OBJECTIVE To examine the association between perceived discrimination and two measures of quality of care: patient report of quality of care in the past 12 months and quality of doctor-patient communication. METHODS This was a cross-sectional study of a nationally representative sample of adult Latinos (N=3,899) who answered a telephone survey in the summer of 2007 and again in the spring of 2008. The quality of care measure comprised 26 items from the Short Form of the Interpersonal Processes of Care Survey. The quality of doctor-patient communication measure comprised 26 items from the Interpersonal Processes of Care Survey. RESULTS For US-born Latinos, report of any doctor or medical staff discrimination was associated with lower quality of care [odds ratio (OR) = 0.5; 95\n"}
{"id": "PMC3813680", "output": "An 85-year-old female presented with a 1-day history of upper abdominal pain radiating down her left leg associated with numerous episodes of emesis. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis indicated proximal small bowel obstruction secondary to a left obturator hernia. She proceeded to emergent laparoscopy and subsequent mesh repair of left obturator hernia, containing an obstructed loop of small bowel. There was a concomitant femoral hernia that was repaired separately. Findings included visualization of small bowel dilatation down to small bowel in a left obturator hernia with an incidental left femoral hernia containing omentum. The obturator hernia was repaired with ProceedTM Ventral patch (Ethicon, Inc., Sommerville, NJ, USA) tacked with AbsorbaTackTM fixation device. The initial fixation was performed onto Cooper's ligament. This then allowed the mesh to be spread laterally and fixed to the transversalis fascia. Under general anaesthetic, the optical technique for access was utilized at the umbilicus with a 5 mm port. Two further working ports, a 5 and 10 mm, were placed in the right lower quadrant and right hypochondrium, under direct vision. Findings included visualization of small bowel dilatation down to\n"}
{"id": "PMC4897045", "output": "Aim. To determine the prevalence of transmigrated maxillary and mandibular canines in a north Indian population and describe the clinical and radiographic features of patients with transmigrant impacted canines. Subjects and Methods. A prospective study of 3000 panoramic radiographs (1695 males and 1305 females) was conducted in two dental colleges in Haryana for 8 months from September 2013 to April 2014. The radiographs were screened for transmigrated canines by a single examiner experienced in dentomaxillofacial radiology. The level of significance was set to P  0.05. Results. The overall prevalence of transmigrated canines in the north Indian population was 0.66\n"}
{"id": "PMC4594226", "output": "Over the past several decades, extensive animal research has shown that the hypothalamic neuropeptide oxytocin plays an important role in the regulation of several behaviors associated with sociality, such as sexual behavior, pair-bonding, parental care, peer recognition, and social memory. More recent studies in humans have revealed that oxytocin is also involved in aspects of social cognition including social perception, emotion recognition, sensibility to the experiences of others, and pro-social behaviors. Building on these findings, researchers have suggested that the manipulation of the oxytocin system may be used as a tool for improving socio-cognitive abilities in individuals with social disorders. In a recent paper, we showed that nasal intake of oxytocin promotes social bonding in domestic dogs. This clinical approach could be particularly interesting for companion animals showing behavioral problems related to social deficits.\n"}
{"id": "PMC3308473", "output": "Background Dabigatran etexilate (dabigatran) is the first new oral anticoagulant to become available for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) in over 50 years. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with AF in the UK. Methods A Markov model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with AF in the UK. The model was used to compare dabigatran etexilate with aspirin for the prevention of stroke and non-cranial systemic embolism in patients with AF aged 80 years. Results For the patient cohort starting treatment at ages 80 years, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) versus aspirin and dabigatran etexilate was \u00a320.04 and \u00a320.09 per QALY gained, respectively. For the patient cohort starting treatment at ages 80 years, the ICER versus aspirin and dabigatran etexilate was \u00a3352/QALY gained and dabigatran etexilate was dominant (ie, was less costly and more effective)\n"}
{"id": "PMC2691155", "output": "Iodine is a trace element present almost exclusively in the thyroid gland and an essential component of the thyroid hormones. When the physiological requirements for iodine are not met, a series of functional and developmental abnormalities occur, including thyroid function abnormalities. When iodine deficiency is severe, hypothyroidism, endemic goiter and cretinism, decreased fertility, increased prenatal death, and infant mortality may occur. According to the Nordic Nutrition recommendations, the average requirement is estimated to be 100 mg iodine per day for both adult women and men. The recommended intake (RDI) of iodine is 150 mg/day for adults and adolescents. Iodine content of milk and dairy products varies considerably depending on feed and use of disinfectants containing iodine in connection with milking. Milk and dairy product consumption was also high, on an average 1,000 ml/day. Considering that 100 g of fish provides on an average 180 mg/day and 100 ml of milk around 21 mg/day in this period, approximately 570 mg of iodine was provided daily through consumption of these products. This level of consumption is close to the upper safe limit of iodine intake (600 mg/day) proposed by the Scientific Committee on Food. However, persons with normal thyroid function can in general tolerate a prolonged consumption of iodine up to 1 mg/day.\n"}
{"id": "PMC3192519", "output": "A 19-year-old female patient was referred to the Department of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics with the chief complaint of pain and recurrent swelling in the upper front teeth region since 10 to 12 weeks. Based on the history, clinical examination, sensitivity test and radiographic examination, a diagnosis of pulp necrosis with symptomatic periapical pathosis was made for the right maxillary central incisor, lateral incisor and canine. Same was the diagnosis for the left maxillary central incisor. A decision of conventional root canal treatment with the placement of intracanal medicament was made after discussion with the patient. The patient consented to the treatment plan. After the radiographic determination of the working length, biomechanical preparation following \u2018step back\u2019 method was done using 2.6\n"}
{"id": "3278959", "output": "Le Comité de suivi des médicaments vétérinaires a travaillé sur cette thématique émergente en proposant aux vétérinaires des recommandations pour la préparation et l’usage de ces traitements.\n"}
{"id": "3281099", "output": "Le paysage visible, c'est-à-dire ce qui est potentiellement et objectivement offert à la vue, selon l'agencement des formes et des volumes qui constituent l'espace, est une réalité complexe, dont les acceptions varient (Donadieu, Périgord, 2005). Il est une étendue de pays qui se présente à un observateur. Il est enfin ce qui est vu par un observateur, autrement dit ce que celui-ci perçoit de son environnement. Dans cette dernière acception, le paysage est aussi varié qu'il y a d'observateurs pour le voir, le lire, l'étudier, le peindre... ou en faire commerce. Cette diversité de sens a été remarquablement analysée et synthétisée dans le concept de polysystème paysage établi au début des années 1980 par des géographes de Besançon (Brossard, Wieber, 1984). On y trouve notamment le concept de paysage visible, c'est-à-dire ce qui est potentiellement et objectivement offert à la vue, selon l'agencement des formes et des volumes qui constituent l'espace. En France, la\n"}
{"id": "3277474", "output": "L’objet RSE : des enseignants- chercheurs sous permanente tension Corporate Social Responsibility : ce concept parmi d’autres de la Business Ethics est désormais exporté en toutes les langues à l’échelle de la planète, de sorte que la RSE est devenue aujourd’hui un quasi-slogan publicitaire qui envahit l’ensemble des media disponibles (traditionnels ou digitaux). Ce phénomène universel, empiriquement ob- servable quotidiennement, génère une question stratégique : comment enseigner la RSE dans les écoles de management pour qu’elle ne soit ou ne devienne point un cas, parmi d’autres, d’habile publicité mensongère, conformément à une question plus générale, Can Ethics Be Taught.\n"}
{"id": "3323164", "output": "La consécration de la cession de dette par la réforme du 10 février 2016, emporte avec elle son lot d'interrogations. Pourquoi consacrer un tel mécanisme alors que la novation par changement de débiteur et la délégation permettent, peu ou prou, de réaliser exactement la même opération? La perplexité est, en outre, de mise devant cette « cession » qui n'en est pas vraiment une. Les insuffisances théoriques sont pointées du doigt pour expliquer les failles du régime attaché à la cession de dette dans la loi. Il devrait alors être possible de gommer les aspérités remarquées en repensant la théorie.\n"}
{"id": "3334766", "output": "Les enrichissements de manganèse, d'hélium et de méthane sont extrêmement riches en eau de mer et leurs distributions verticales dans l'eau de mer sont couramment utilisées comme traceurs chimiques d'activité hydrothermale. La mission réalisée en mai 1985 au RV de l'Institut de Géologie de l'Écosse (Vernatsky Institut of Geochemistry, Moscou) nous a permis d'étudier les profils de concentration en eau de mer à sept stations : quatre le long de la ride médio-atlantique (13°20'S -14°64'W ; 14°12'S -13°58'W ; 21°28'S -11°37'W ; 19°56'S -11°52'W) et trois le nord de la ride médio-atlantique (12°24'N -44°05'W ; 13°47'N - 44°59'W ; 14°05'N -45°01'W). Certains échantillons ont été analysés pour des rapports de concentration 3He/4He et des quantités de 4He. Les stations\n"}
{"id": "3313639", "output": "Nous présentons dans cet article l'algorithme qui a conduit à la synthèse de Synopsis Seriation. Sur un plan conceptuel, le worfklow implique l'intervention d'un agent virtuel qui \"écoute\" l'input de Synopsis, le segmente en des segments temporels, et re-arrange ces segments pour maximiser la similarité auditive entre les segments adjacents. L'originalité de notre approche est que l'agent fonctionne purement dans le domaine audio, sans recourir à un système de notation externe tel que MIDI ou MusicXML. De plus, l'agent ne considère pas que l'input suit une structure traditionnelle de sections répétées, telles que le verse-chorus ou les formes AABA. Enfin, l'agent assigne des segments de l'input à une sortie stereophonique en optimisant un double objectif de cohérence temporelle et de cohérence binaurale.\n"}
{"id": "3295548", "output": "Les deux ouvrages que l'on se propose d'analyser dans cet article, Un Nègre à Paris et Debout-payé de Gauz, ont été écrits à des périodes assez éloignées l'une de l'autre, et il peut initialement sembler difficile d'envisager des parallèles entre deux écrivains de générations si dissemblables. Pourtant, ces deux récits déploient à notre sens, dans des contextes différents, des stratégies comparables dans leur manière de se confronter à la notion d'exotisme. On examinera dans quelle mesure on peut voir cet exotisme à l'oeuvre dans les deux romans, comment il est mis en tension avec le discours ethnographique et comment il est mis à distance par la satire.\n"}
{"id": "3338552", "output": "Les partis pris de Cameron sont particulièrement sensibles dans le chapitre consacré au Carmen contra paganos. Ce poème long de 122 hexamètres a été retrouvé au XVII e siècle seulement dans un manuscrit des œuvres de Prudence dont il occupe les trois dernières pages, visiblement à part de ce qui précède. Ce manuscrit date probablement du V e siècle ou du début du VI e. Comme ce poème ne porte ni aucune identification d'auteur ni titre, on lui donne différents noms, soit celui du manuscrit dans lequel on l'a retrouvé, le Codex Paris Latinus 8084, soit celui de Carmen contra paganos. Le texte en a été édité pour la première fois en 1867 seulement, par Léopold Delisle. Dans les pages que consacre Cameron au Carmen contra paganos on ne trouve presque rien de nouveau sur la question de l'identification de la cible du poème. L'essentiel en effet de sa démonstration porte sur l'auteur de ces 122 hexamètres.\n"}
{"id": "3339618", "output": "L'imagerie satellitaire est devenue une source incontour- nable de données à fortes valeurs intrinsèques. En effet, ses atouts sont nombreux : grands volumes de données multimodales acquis en un passage au dessus d'une zone géographique large, absence de contrainte de survol, gra- tuité parfois (ex : programme Sentinel de l'Union Européenne) et surtout une forte revisite (5 à 10 jours pour Sentinel-2). Ce dernier avantage offre la possibilité d'ob- tenir des séries temporelles d'images satellitaires (STIS), ce qui autorise le suivi dynamique et l'évolution temporelle des observables. Cependant, à l'instar de nombreuses applications, les utilisateurs de STIS sont confrontés à un défi important, celui de l'extraction efficiente de la connaissance et l'exploitation de la distribution spatio-temporelle pour en tirer le meilleur parti. Nous nous intéressons à un produit, considéré depuis long- temps comme une donnée d'entrée d'importance vitale pour de multiples activités de recherche et de management, et dérivable à partir de séries temporelles\n"}
{"id": "3339668", "output": "Nous avons étudié la marche sagittale de 10 sujets sains en utilisant la caméra ultra-rapide Miro Phantom C110. L'approche a consisté à détecter des marqueurs placés à l'aide de repères anatomiques précis sur la hanche, à extraire les coordonnées 2D et à calculer différents paramètres de la marche. Les objectifs de ce projet sont de vérifier l'utilisation d'une caméra ultra-rapide pour déterminer les paramètres cinématiques et cinétiques de la marche et d'analyser l'intérêt de la fréquence élevée pour la détection d'évènements précis au cours de la marche.\n"}
{"id": "3348451", "output": "La culture de l'identité en ligne a changé depuis les premières communautés virtuelles, passant d'un paradigme utopique du village planétaire à un souci de son image qui fait l'objet d'une négociation entre la crainte du traçage identitaire et la pulsion de manifester son existence. Ne pourrait-on pas penser les profils utilisateurs en soi, comme participant de l'économie interne d'un nouveau paradigme communicationnel qui implique de nouvelles postures cognitives et sociales? Quels sont les enjeux de ces médiations numériques de soi sur la communication humaine?\n"}
{"id": "3289133", "output": "La question de l'apprentissage adaptatif est d'autant plus primordiale à l'ère du numérique et des Environnements Informatiques pour l'Apprentissage Humain (EIAH). L'apprentissage adaptatif dans les EIAH ludiques varie de l'adaptation des scénarios pédagogiques en fonction des profils et des compétences des apprenants à l'adapta- tion des mécanismes de jeu eux-mêmes en fonction des motivations et des profils des joueurs. Dans cet article, nous nous intéressons à la personnalisation des parcours d'apprentissage en fonction des profils de compétences des apprenants. Dans notre projet, ces parcours d'apprentissage seront autodiagnostiqués à partir des référentiels de compétences des élèves, mais aussi à partir d'informations complémentaires de l'enseignant. Ainsi, des ressources pédagogiques spécifiques sont mises au point par les experts en didactique afin d'être assignées à ces parcours adaptatifs sur la base de référentiels de compétences.\n"}
{"id": "3274981", "output": "Dans la satire I, 9, Horace se représente en train de se promener comme à son habitude sur la Voie sacrée quand un importun, qui souhaite s’introduire dans le cercle de Mécène, l’accoste. Le poète tente de s’en débarrasser mais, dans les échanges des vers 4 à 21, sa stratégie est mise en échec. Alors que ce dernier continue d’occuper tout l’espace de parole en menant la conversation, Horace finit par sortir de son silence pour affirmer plus vigoureusement et plus explicitement sa volonté de le repousser.\n"}
{"id": "3360175", "output": "Cet article présente une approche probabiliste pour prévoir la fiabilité de la tenue en fatigue polycyclique des pièces mécaniques à défauts de surface. Elle est basée sur un critère de fatigue multiaxial des matériaux à défauts proposé par Nadot et al, et sur une approche de prévision de la fiabilité de la tenue en fatigue polycyclique proposée récemment par Ben Sghaeir et al. Elle tient compte de la dispersion des tailles des défauts. Des simulations élastiques-plastiques ont été effectuées pour déterminer les distributions des contraintes autour des défauts. Les calculs ont été effectués pour différentes tailles et différentes sollicitations, permettant d'obtenir les expressions de la pression hydrostatique maximale et de l'amplitude de la contrainte de cission, par la technique des surfaces de réponse. Le point représentatif du chargement est transformé en une surface générée par le tirage aléatoire des tailles des défauts. La fiabilité est calculée par la méthode de simulation de Monte Carlo.\n"}
{"id": "3359677", "output": "La synthèse de grands hydrocarbures aromatiques polycycliques a récemment été développée. Il s'agit d'une variante de la réaction de Perkin dont le rôle est d'assembler les briques élémentaires, c'est-à-dire les acides aryl-glyoxyliques et les acides aryl-acétiques, en des précurseurs conjugués flexibles qui sont substitués par des fonctions carboxyliques. La phase de rigidification finale, par la formation des liaisons C-C manquantes, aboutit à la formation de composés aromatiques polycycliques totalement condensés. La méthode est maintenant très complète avec un grand nombre de briques accessibles, des techniques de protection des fonctions réactives, et plusieurs exemples de composés finis avec des structures très diverses : rubans, hélicenes, macrocycles.\n"}
{"id": "3362472", "output": "Dans cet article, un outil numérique est présenté pour analyser et dimensionner un concept innovant de pare-blocs sous impacts rocheux. Un outil numérique est développé, qui permet de calculer l'impact unilatéral entre un projectile rigide de forme sphérique ou cubique et une structure déformable. Cette description simplifiée du projectile permet d'éviter les incertitudes dans la modélisation de l'impact. De plus, le traitement de l'équation d'impact permet d'éviter les frottements du bloc rocheux. Les résultats numériques restent dans une marge de sécurité non excessive.\n"}
{"id": "3362112", "output": "Le cadre de l'étude repose sur les ouvrages hydrauliques, dans lequel l'érosion interne pose des problèmes de rupture. L'érosion par renard se produit lorsqu'un tube relie l'amont et l'aval d'un ouvrage, le gradient de pression hydraulique qui s'y applique initie un écoulement. Nous étudions donc l'érosion d'un tube par de l'eau. Le tube est supposé cylindrique et l'on néglige les phénomènes de sédimentation et de gravité. Ce qui permet après une intégration sur la section d'obtenir un système d'équations monodimensionnelles instationnaire. Il faut penser à fermer notre système par des choix de modèles rhéologiques et phénoménologiques (par exemple l'expression de la contrainte de cisaillement).\n"}
{"id": "3361141", "output": "Dans cette communication, nous considérons un problème classique de réflexion des ondes acoustiques à l'interface de deux matériaux visco-poroélastiques saturés. En décomposant le champ d'ondes en ondes planes ascendantes et descendantes, nous décrivons explicitement les polarisations pour toutes les ondes (P-, Biot-, Sv- et Sh-). Par analogie avec le cas élastique, les coefficients de réflexion-transmission-conversion (RTC) peuvent alors être obtenus en fonction de la fréquence et de l'angle d'incidence. L'algorithme présenté suit une approche classique en élasticité, consistant à effectuer une décomposition en ondes planes ascendantes et descendantes dont les polarisations seront exprimées de façon explicite. Si cette formulation matricielle se prête bien à une implémentation numérique, elle permet aussi d'obtenir une expression analytique des coefficients RTC pour une incidence normale en approximation basse fréquence.\n"}
