{"id": "PMC3309138", "output": "Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. Although the current treatment of radiation therapy, chemotherapy and hormone therapy slow mammary gland tumor growth, progression and improve the quality of patients’ life, metastatic breast cancer still remains incurable due to our limited understanding of the molecular mechanisms through which tumorigenesis and metastasis occur. As small non-coding RNAs regulate gene expression and tumorigenesis, they may represent a novel cancer therapy. miRNAs regulate gene expression and play important roles in the onset and progression of tumorigenesis. Emerging evidence demonstrates the involvement of miRNAs in mammary gland tumorigenesis, functioning as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. miRNA gene copy number gain/loss and miRNA gene mutation have been observed in breast cancer resulting in aberrant expression of miRNA. miRNA gene copy number gain/loss and miRNA gene mutation have been observed in breast cancer resulting in aberrant expression of miRNA. In this review, we summarize the recent progress on the regulation of miRNAs in breast cancer and the mechanism by which miRNAs regulate the cellular proliferation through the cell cycle signaling pathway."}
{"id": "PMC5094872", "output": "ABSTRACT Background: Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive bacterium that can colonize the human skin and respiratory tract. In asthma patients, staphylococcal toxins also act as superantigens, stimulating CD4 T lymphocyte proliferation and activity and leading to an increased production of staphylococcal toxin-specific IgE antibodies, causing an allergic-type reaction by biding to mast cells in the respiratory tract. Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of staphylococcal toxin-specific IgE antibodies and the degree of sensitization and association with the clinical severity of asthma. Methods: This was a cross-sectional study conducted at a university hospital in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Patients with asthma were divided into two groups according to the severity of the disease: the control group (13-15) comprising patients with mild or moderate asthma (MSA); and the severe asthma group (13-15) comprising patients with severe asthma (MA). Results: Of the 142 patients studied, 62 (33.7"}