{"id": "0901.4583", "output": "We consider a Georgi-Glashow model with a triplet of scalar fields and SO(3) non abelian gauge fields. The usual mass term is forbidden by the conformal symmetry and is replaced by R-2/6. The Ricci scalar coupling to the scalar field is also conformally invariant. We find that the effective action after symmetry breaking is dominated by Einstein gravity in the long distance or low energy regime.\n"}
{"id": "0904.0399", "output": "A structural model of the Si(335)-Au/Pb surface is proposed, based on first principles density functional theory calculations. The model features single Pb atom per Si(335) unit cell placed near the Au chain. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The Pb atoms are bonded to neighboring Si and Au atoms, forming monoatomic chain located  0.2 nm above the surface. The P\n"}
{"id": "0907.1040", "output": "We develop an analytical theory for the gate electrostatics and the classical and quantum capacitance of the graphene nanoribbons (GNRs). We demonstrate that the analytical theory is in a good qualitative (and in some aspects quantative) agreement with the exact numerical calculations based on the tight-binding p-orbital Hamiltonian within the Hartree approximation. In order to clarify the origin of the discrepancies we investigate the self-consistent electronic structure and charge distribution in the GNRs and relate the above discrepancy to the inability of the simple electrostatic model to capture the classical gate electrostatics of the GNRs. In turn, the failure of the classical electrostatics is traced to the quantum mechanical effects leading to the significant modification of the self-consistent charge distribution in comparison to the non-interacting electron description.\n"}
{"id": "0909.0592", "output": "Dynamical friction is the reaction force that a perturber feels from the gravitational wake it generates in the ambient medium. Following the pioneering work of Chandrasekhar (1943) on the gravitational drag experienced by a perturber in collisionless star systems, the derivations of dynamical friction assume that the perturber has a constant velocity in the ambient medium. Neglecting the perturber's accelerated motion is justified by the small amplitude of the force that is proportional to the square of the pertuber's mass. Neglecting acceleration is mainly motivated by the lack of an analytical framework where the perturber's accelerated motion could be taken into account. To overcome this obstacle, we derive in Appendix A a new expression of dynamical friction that applies to a general type of motion and depends on the perturber's motion and the boundary conditions but not the density perturbation. In particular, dynamical friction is shown to be non-local as it depends on the whole trajectory of the perturber. Although non-locality does not appear if the perturber's velocity is constant, its origin is easy to identify: as the perturber's wake propagates in the medium, a velocity change because of acceleration affects the density enhancement near the\n"}
{"id": "1303.7474", "output": "Independent vector analysis (IVA) is an extension of the convolutive independent component analysis (ICA) formulation of the blind source separation (BSS) problem. IVA assumes a source within one dataset is dependent at most one source in another dataset when sources within a dataset are mutually independent (as in ICA). IVA reduces to performing ICA on each dataset when sources possess no dependence across datasets. In this paper, a general framework for IVA is presented. The IVA case when samples are iid is shown to have a performance bound that can be expressed compactly for the very large class of multivariate elliptical distributions. The IVA case when samples are iid is shown to have a performance bound that can be expressed compactly for the very large class of multivariate elliptical distributions.\n"}
{"id": "1308.1740", "output": "Star formation histories (SFHs) of nearby galaxies can be estimated by analysis of their resolved stellar content. While significant work has been dedicated to the derivation and implementation of SFH measurement techniques, estimation of uncertainties in SFH measurements has been given considerably less attention. On the topic of systematic uncertainties due to isochrone physics, Dolphin (2012) proposed a technique for estimating the size of these uncertainties. However, an unstanding of random uncertainties is equally critical, especially when analyzing less-populated color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs) where random uncertainties are likely to dominate. The present study evaluates the common approach used for this problem and several alternatives.\n"}
{"id": "1401.2564", "output": "The gravitino in models with bilinear R-parity violation is an attractive dark matter (DM) candidate since this type of models provides a possibility to reconcile the generation of the baryon asymmetry in the Universe via thermal leptogenesis with the constraints on late-decaying particles from big bang nucleosynthesis (BBN). The high reheating temperature required for thermal leptogenesis naturally leads to a thermally produced gravitino relic abundance that matches the observed DM density in the Universe if the gravitino mass is in the range of roughly ten to several hundreds of GeV. Interestingly, the cosmological constraints on the size of R-parity violation allow for a gravitino lifetime that can be probed by cosmic-ray experiments, i.e. the decay of gravitino DM in the Galactic halo can lead to observable signals in the spectra of cosmic rays. We report on lower limits on the gravitino lifetime and the corresponding upper limits on the amount of R-parity violation that were derived from observations of cosmic-ray antiprotons with the PAMELA experiment. We also compare the obtained lifetime limits to constraints derived from gamma-ray and neutrino observations.\n"}
{"id": "1407.1693", "output": "Luminous Blue Variables (LBVs) are a class of variable stars which can brighten by orders of magnitude on timescales of months to years. The most energetic of these eruptions, known as giant eruptions, occur over relatively long timescales, lasting a few tens of years, and are thought to have long periods of dormancy between eruptions. The underlying cause of these variations is not yet understood. In this work, we investigate radial pulsation as a possible origin for the variations, although nonradial pulsations may also play a role. We have calculated non-linear pulsation periods for a grid of stellar models ranging from 20 to 85 Msun. We find that the pulsation period is sensitive to the initial overtone, and that the pulsation period can be as short as a few days. We also find that the pulsation period can be as long as a few months, and that the pulsation period can be as long as a few years. We discuss the effects of pulsation on the evolution of the stellar winds. We find that the pulsation period can be as short as a few days, and that the pulsation period can be as long as a few\n"}
{"id": "1601.00251", "output": "A high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity with a frequency-doubled green laser for precision Compton polarimetry at Jefferson Lab (JLab) is described. A unique technique to extract the laser beam polarization inside a resonant Fabry-Perot cavity will be given and finally, the first electron beam polarization measurement results from the PREx experiment at a beam energy of 1.06 GeV and 50 A will be presented.\n"}
{"id": "cond-mat9805194", "output": "A mathematical model for the behavior of individuals in a social field is developed. This model is based on Boltzmann-like equations and includes spontaneous (or externally induced) behavioral changes and behavioral changes by pair interactions of individuals. These changes are described by transition rates. They reflect the results of mental and psychical processes, which could be simulated with the help of Festinger's dissonance theory. However, it is sufficient for our model to distinguish imitative and avoidance processes, and assumes utility maximization by a variant of the multinomial logit model. The ansatz used for the transition rates distinguishes imitative and avoidance processes, and assumes utility maximization by a variant of the multinomial logit model.\n"}
{"id": "gr-qc0308085", "output": "The LISA mission is a collaboration between ESA and NASA to build and operate a space-based laser interferometer aimed at detecting and studying gravitational waves of astrophysical origin. The current schedule places the launch around the year 2011, and the 3-10 years observation period is expected to produce a number of observations of galactic binaries, of massive black hole mergers and captures, and possibly of a cosmological stochastic background. Early studies of the data analysis techniques that will be required to observe these signals are important since they couple our present knowledge about the sources LISA will be able to observe to the science requirements guiding the design of the LISA mission itself. We present here a study of the accuracy that can be expected for the characterization of the noise in the LISA detector once it has been placed in its heliocentric orbit. Specifically, we calculate in the low frequency regime the optimal approximations for the spectra of the noise affecting the interferometric combinations sensitive to gravitational waves, by relying only on all the possible cross-spectra between the interferometric combinations that are sensitive to gravitational radiation and the symmetrized-Sagnac combination,. The rational behind this is that  couples very weakly to gravitational radiation while it is affected by the same instrumental noises\n"}
{"id": "hep-ph9911243", "output": "We study the effects of large CP-violating soft phases on electroweak baryogenesis in supersymmetric extensions of the Standard Model. We use a self-consistent computation of the CP-violating sources resulting from particle interactions with the changing Higgs profile in the bubble wall to derive limits for the light Higgs mass and the right handed stop soft breaking mass parameter m_U. We show that even in the one-loop approximation for the temperature dependent effective Higgs potential the light Higgs mass upper limit can be pushed up to 115 GeV without invoking negative values of the right handed stop soft breaking mass parameter m_U, which can lead to color breaking global minima and scalar potential instability.\n"}
{"id": "physics0412075", "output": "The dissociation spectrum of H+_2 from a short, intense infrared laser pulse is studied using a two-state approximation. The vibrational and rotational time of the molecule are assumed to be 15 fs and 170 fs, respectively. The laser pulse is spatially Gaussian in the radial r-direction and Lorentzian along the z axis. The orientation-averaged and focal-volume integrated results are compared with experiment. The results are in excellent agreement with experiment.\n"}
{"id": "1202.0845", "output": "The Chew-Mandelstam energy-dependent parametrization for the hadronic T matrix is used to fit single- and double-pion photoproduction data over the center-of-mass energy range from the near-threshold region to about 2.5 GeV, including resonances through the fourth resonance region. The fit form used for solution SN11 is compared to that used in our most recent SAID analysis, based on the standard SAID parametrization. Extracted multipoles are compared to previous SAID fits, and those from other groups.\n"}
{"id": "1601.00066", "output": "Quasi-satellite dynamics in formation flight is studied in terms of the Clohessy-Wiltshire equations. The force between two co-orbital bodies can be different from the normal Newtonian gravity. Even repulsive forces result in tandem motion of the bodies. The simplest way to achieve tandem flight in that situation is possibly making ion thrusters to point towards, or away from, the other satellite. Even near triangle configurationura- tion for three satellites is possible without any complicated control, just constant acceleration or an acceleration that depends on the distance. Long lasting thrusters are necessary, but such exist e.g. by ESA's SMART-1 mission from a near Earth orbit to the Moon.\n"}
{"id": "1106.1396", "output": "We investigate the evolution of the Glasma fields in the framework of the Color Glass Condensate (CGC). We find that the instability produced by the smallest wave-number (_0=1) is the fastest and strongest in a wide range of times. We also confirm the dominance of linearity and the appreciable presence of residual non-linear effects by verifying that the result from an initial condition with multiple _0's can be approximated as the superposition of the results from initial conditions with single _0's.\n"}
{"id": "PMC4426942", "output": "OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to identify risk factors for post- endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) pancreatitis (PEP). METHODS During a four-year period (2008\u20132012), 780 patients who underwent ERCP in a tertiary care hospital were analyzed in this prospective study. Laboratory evaluations, including those of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), bilirubin, and serum amylase, were performed on the first day of hospitalization, and the results were used as pre-ERCP laboratory parameters. RESULTS PEP developed in 26 patients (3.3\n"}
{"id": "PMC5192341", "output": "The aim of this study was to explore the vascular and cardiac changes of osteoprotegerin (OPG) and TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) in experimental models of dyslipidemia and diabetes. A total of 12 male C57BL/6J (CNT) mice and 24 male apolipoprotein E null (ApoE) mice were studied for 14 weeks. At 6 weeks of age, ApoE mice were further randomized to saline (ApoE) or streptozotocin (STZ), which were delivered intraperitoneally in five consecutive daily doses. Circulating levels of OPG and TRAIL were measured in the sera by autoanalyzer technique. Circulating levels of OPG were 1.91  0.21 ng/mL in the control group, 3.1  0.19 ng/mL in the ApoE + DM group, and 3.1  0.19 ng/mL in the ApoE + DM group. Dyslipidemia increased significantly cardiac OPG/TRAIL ratio, with no further differences after the induction of diabetes. In the aorta, the induction of diabetes was associated with a significant increase in OPG gene expression and in the OPG/TRAIL ratio, while dyslipidemia had no\n"}
{"id": "PMC4847162", "output": "Objectives: The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of unprocessed and inverted digital images for detection of peri-implant defects using Scanora software. Materials and Methods: A total of 60 unprocessed and 30 inverted digital images were obtained of 30 implants with the same diameter and length: 10 implants with small (0.425mm) and 10 implants with large (0.725mm) diameter peri-implant defects in the coronal 8mm and in the coronal 8mm, respectively. Four oral and maxillofacial radiologists with at least two years of work experience evaluated all 60 images for presence or absence of peri-implant defects using an e-five-point scale. The sensitivity and specificity of the two modalities for detection of small and large defects were calculated and compared. Data were analyzed using SPSS version 20. Independent t-test was used to compare the diagnostic value of unprocessed and inverted digital imaging modalities. Type 1 error was considered as 0.05. Results: The sensitivity and specificity of the two modalities for detection of small and large defects were not significantly different (P>0.05). However, in the equality of the means, the sensitivity and specificity of unprocessed and inverted images were significantly different (P0.05). In the non- equality of the means, the sensitivity and specificity of unprocessed and inverted\n"}
{"id": "PMC3065795", "output": "Background: Folic acid is a water-soluble vitamin, which is internalized by folate receptor-mediated endocytosis. Folic acid has been coupled on the surface of Fe3O4 for selective binding to cancer cells and immobilized on the surfaces of magnetic nanoparticles, to disperse particles and improve their cell internalization and target cancer cells, respectively. The objective of this research was to assess the potential effects of Fe3O4 magnetic nanoparticles modified with methacrylamido-folic acid (Ma-Fol) on 5RP7 (Rat embryonic fibroblasts) and NIH/3T3 (normal mouse embryonic fibroblasts) by flow cytometry and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Methods: Ma-Fol was used to target preferentially cancer cells with folate receptors expressed on their surfaces, and to facilitate the nanoparticles transit across the cell membrane. Results: Ma-Fol-modified Fe3O4 nanoparticles inhibited tumor proliferation and induced apoptosis of cancer cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The apoptotic effects of Ma-Fol-modified Fe3O4 nanoparticles were determined in a 5RP7 (Rat embryonic fibroblasts) and in a NIH/3T3 control cell line (normal mouse embryonic fibroblasts) by flow cytometry and TEM, respectively. Conclusion:\n"}
{"id": "PMC4017903", "output": "Pemphigus is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized by blisters and erosions on the skin or mucosal membranes or both. The two main types of pemphigus are pemphigus vulgaris (PV) and pemphigus foliaceus (PF). Because of the rarity of the disease, studies are often underpowered and fail to demonstrate a statistically significant difference between the active and control groups. Steroid-sparing agents are employed to reduce the cumulative exposure and side effects associated with long-term steroid use. The evidence to date indicates that adding an adjuvant to steroids has a significant steroid-sparing effect, reducing the cumulative exposure to steroids. Rituximab is beneficial in patients who have poorly controlled disease despite high-dose steroids or steroid-sparing agents (or both) or are contra-indicated for receiving steroids.\n"}
{"id": "PMC1693775", "output": "Objectives To quantify the variation in tumor response of pulmonary metastases of varied histology in individual consecutive patients that were submitted to CT studies in order to evaluate response to chemotherapy. Patients and methods We prospectively evaluated two consecutive chest CT scans of patients with the diagnosis of solid tumor and pulmonary metastases receiving systemic chemotherapy. We submitted each pulmonary nodule individually, as well as all the nodules of the same patient combined, to both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and compared the response evaluations in each setting. Results The intra-individual variation for metastases response evaluation was quite diverse by both criteria, with no relation to type of cancer, chemotherapy or number of nodules. By the RECIST criteria, the proportion of measurable nodules classified differently from the patient evaluation, taking the sum of all nodules into consideration, varied from 0\n"}
{"id": "PMC3334523", "output": "Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) are the most widely utilized methods for mapping brain circuitry at the system level, and thus also the primary tools of the Human Connectome Project (HCP). These non-invasive neuroimaging modalities are often combined with DTI to show major fiber tracts in the deep white matter. The problem with images of the brain acquired in vivo with MRI and DTI is that they are limited in both resolution and contrast. The data needs to be averaged across many subjects who represent broad demographic or clinical groups in order to extract significant measures. In practice, it is not possible with MRI to localize the exact borders of neighboring neuroanatomical structures and identify the underlying histological features on which radiologic images depend. The latter can only be determined postmortem. A better understanding of local white matter architecture at the microscopic level can help defining DTI acquisition and modeling parameters; these may need to be specific to different regions of the brain, just like MRI. Furthermore, the correspondence between images acquired in vivo and those from histopathology is enormously improved if the latter cover the whole brain, just like MRI. These methodological prerogatives are the basis for a novel neuroimaging resource that will be used to cross-reference different modalities and establish fundamental properties\n"}
{"id": "PMC3840919", "output": "The time integral of the gating or sensing current as a function of voltage (V) is the displaced charge Q(V), normally called the Q-V curve. It is important to estimate how much is the total amount of net charge per molecule (Q max) that relocates within the electric field because it determines whether a small or a large change in voltage is necessary to affect the function of the protein. The typical methods used to estimate charge per molecule include measurements of limiting slope. Our intention is to demonstrate that this commonly used method to estimate the charge per molecule is incorrect and likely to give a lower bound of the moving charge times fraction of the field.\n"}
{"id": "PMC5360997", "output": "[Purpose] This study aimed to determine and compare the most common dominant affective temperaments in ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients and in a healthy control group using the Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris and San Diego Auto Questionnaire (TEMPS-A) and to examine the relationship in AS patients between existing depression and anxiety levels and levels of pain, disease activity, and quality of life and the dominant affective temperament. [Subjects and Methods] Fifty-one patients diagnosed with axial spondiloartropathy (SpA) and forty-two age- and gender-matched control subjects were included in this study. Baseline assessments were completed by trained investigators using identical questionnaires that included demographic information (age, gender, and education), disease duration, medications (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), erythrocyte sedimentation rate, pain by visual analog scale, and measurements for disease activity, functional status, psychological status, health assessment, and affective temperament. [Results] Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) values were higher in the AS group compared to the control group. Depressive, cyclothymic, and anxious temperament scores along with the values of BDI and BAI were positively correlated with\n"}
{"id": "PMC2764042", "output": "OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between perceived discrimination and two measures of quality of care: patient report of quality of care in the past 12 months and the Detroit Area Study (DAS) discrimination scale. METHODS: Participants were part of a stratified, random-digit dialing telephone survey (the Pew Hispanic Center/Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Health Survey) designed to produce a statistically representative sample of Latinos in the US. Participants were identified as Latino if they answered yes to the question, Are you, yourself, of Hispanic or Latino origin or descent such as Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, Central or South American, Caribbean or some other Latin American background? Participants were called again in spring 2008 for a second interview (Wave 2), focusing on chronic disorders and medical care received. RESULTS: For US-born Latinos, report of any doctor or medical staff discrimination was associated with lower quality of care [odds ratio (OR) = 0.5; 95\n"}
{"id": "PMC3813680", "output": "An 85-year-old female presented with a 1-day history of upper abdominal pain radiating down her left leg associated with numerous episodes of emesis. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis indicated proximal small bowel obstruction secondary to a left obturator hernia. She proceeded to emergent laparoscopy and subsequent mesh repair of left obturator hernia, containing an obstructed loop of small bowel. There was a concomitant femoral hernia that was repaired separately. The obturator hernia was reduced using a pair of non-traumatic forceps and deemed viable. The omentum was reduced from forceps and deemed viable.\n"}
{"id": "PMC4897045", "output": "Objective. To determine the prevalence of transmigrated maxillary and mandibular canines in a north Indian population and describe the clinical and radiographic features of patients with transmigrant impacted canines. Subjects and Methods. A prospective study of 3000 panoramic radiographs (1695 males and 1305 females) was conducted in two dental colleges in Haryana for 8 months from September 2013 to April 2014. The radiographs were screened for radiographically identified position of the transmigrated tooth, retained canine, associated pathologies, and other coexisting dental anomalies. After diagnosing a transmigrant canine radiographically, clinical evaluation was done for the patient's age and sex, symptoms, the presence of associated pathology, and the treatment provided. Statistical analysis was done using SPSS version 11 and the Chi-square test was done. The level of significance was set to P  0.05. Results. There were 20 patients (12 males and 8 females) observed in our study with transmigrated canines. The overall prevalence of transmigration (maxillary and mandibular) was 0.66\n"}
{"id": "PMC4594226", "output": "Over the past several decades, extensive animal research has shown that the hypothalamic neuropeptide oxytocin plays an important role in the regulation of several behaviors associated with sociality, such as sexual behavior, pair-bonding, parental care, peer recognition, and social memory. More recent studies in humans have revealed that the manipulation of the oxytocin system is also involved in aspects of social cognition including social perception, emotion recognition, sensibility to the experiences of others, and pro-social behaviors. Thus, the development of pharmacotherapies that promote social integration in companion animals may be helpful in the treatment of selected behavior problems. In a recent paper, we showed that nasal intake of oxytocin promotes social bonding in domestic dogs. A total of 16 adult dogs from different breeds participated as subjects in a random-ized placebo-controlled experiment (females 8; male 8; mean age 6.1 y). All subjects received 100ml of oxytocin (40 IU, Peptide institute, Japan) or 100ml of saline solution, depending on the testing condition. After spray intake, dogs stay in the experimental room (11.5 \u00a3 6.5m) with their owners and a familiar dog partner, and their behaviors were video recorded for 60 minutes. We found that after oxytocin nasal intake, dogs engaged in social play significantly more often than\n"}
{"id": "PMC3308473", "output": "Objective To estimate the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) in the UK. Methods A Markov model was developed to systematically assess the costs and consequences of dabigatran treatment used per its European indication, in which the 150 mg dose is recommended for patients under age 80 and the 110 mg dose for those aged 80 and over. The analyses compare dabigatran with warfarin (with trial-like INR control), aspirin and no treatment. The overall cost-effectiveness of dabigatran was quantified as incremental cost incurred per-quality-adjusted year of life (QALY) gained with dabigatran treatment. Model outcomes included number of clinical events normal-years, QALYs, total and disaggregated costs (drug, clinical event and follow-up costs) and incremental cost per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses were performed to identify key determinants of cost-effectiveness by performing 5000 simulations for each comparison in which clinical, cost and utility parameters were simultaneously varied randomly within their statistical distributions, based on their means and 95\n"}
{"id": "PMC2691155", "output": "Iodine is a trace element present almost exclusively in the thyroid gland and an essential component of the thyroid hormones. When the physiological requirements for iodine are not met, a series of functional and developmental abnormalities occur, including thyroid function abnormalities. When iodine deficiency is severe, endemic goiter and cretinism, decreased fertility, increased prenatal death, and infant mortality may occur. According to the Nordic Nutrition recommendations, the average requirement is estimated to be 100 mg iodine per day for both adult women and men. The recommended intake (RDI) of iodine is 150 mg/day for adults and adolescents. The high consumption of fish, 200 g/day on average, was considered unique compared to other countries. However, it should be noted that estimates of iodine content of food in the Icelandic nutrition database are often based on very few samples. For this reason, measurements of iodine excretion in urine should be conducted regularly to estimate iodine status rather than to depend solely on dietary surveys. The results from the ongoing studies on iodine status of Icelandic adolescent girls and pregnant women are important to evaluate the need for special action with regard to iodine status.\n"}
{"id": "PMC3192519", "output": "A 19-year-old female patient was referred to the Department of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics with the chief complaint of pain and recurrent swelling in the upper front teeth region since 10 to 12 weeks. On clinical examination, labial and palatal swelling was seen apically between the roots of teeth nos. 11, 12, 13 and 21. A diagnosis of pulp necrosis with symptomatic periapical pathosis was made for the right maxillary right central incisor, lateral incisor and canine. A decision of conventional root canal treatment with the placement of intracanal medicament was made after discussion with the patient. The patient consented to the treatment plan. After the radiographic determination of the working length, biomechanical preparation following \u2018step back\u2019 method was done using 2.6% sodium hypochlorite and normal saline as an irrigating agent. Iodine containing calcium hydroxide (Vitapex, Neo Dental Chemical Products, Tokyo, Japan) was placed as intracanal medicament, and the root canal access was sealed with zinc oxide eugenol cement at the end of the first appointment. After 21 days, the patient reported with no relief from her symptoms. Follow-up after 21 days revealed, the left tooth was asymptomatic but the teeth in the right maxillary anterior region were symptomatic. Treatment for the\n"}
{"id": "3278959", "output": "Les cellules stromales mésenchymateuses (CSM) en tant que thérapies innovantes en médecine vétérinaire révèlent des intérêts thérapeutiques dans le traitement des affections dégénératives ostéo-articulaires chez le cheval et d’autres encore à découvrir. Des médicaments vétérinaires à base de CSM ont obtenu des AMM par procédure centralisée pour des traitements allogéniques ; les vétérinaires réalisent également des traitements autologues. Cependant, du fait de l’absence de procédure universelle de préparation, l’utilisation autologue de CSM sans AMM requiert de la part des vétérinaires une production impliquant un établissement tiers spécialisé. Le Comité de suivi des médicaments vétérinaires a travaillé sur cette thématique émergente en proposant aux vétérinaires des recommandations pour la préparation et l’usage de ces traitements.\n"}
{"id": "3281099", "output": "Le concept de paysage visible, c'est-à-dire ce qui est potentiellement et objectivement offert à la vue, selon l'agencement des formes et des volumes qui constituent l'espace. En France, la cartographie du paysage visible s'est \" démocratisée \" avec la loi \" Paysage \", qui impose de procéder à l'étude de l'impact visuel de tout projet de nouvelle infrastructure ou de nouvel aménagement d'importance. Elle s'est développée aussi pour servir d'outil d'aide à la décision en matière de développement touristique, pour définir des aires soumises à servitude de vue (avec restrictions de construction) dans les documents d'urbanisme ou encore pour préparer des simulations visuelles de l'évolution possible des paysages. Le recours à l'animation cartographique peut à ce titre être probant, comme pour la représentation d'autres processus ou phénomènes spatio-temporels. Le recours à l'animation cartographique peut à ce titre restera dans l'esprit de l'observateur.\n"}
{"id": "3277474", "output": "L'objet RSE : des enseignants-chercheurs sous permanente tension Corporate Social Responsibility : ce concept parmi d'autres de la Business Ethics, est désormais exporté en toutes les langues à l'échelle de la planète, de sorte que la RSE est devenue aujourd'hui un quasi-slogan publicitaire qui envahit l'ensemble des media disponibles (traditionnels ou digitaux). Ce phénomène universel, empiriquement ob- servable quotidiennement, génère une question stratégique : comment enseigner la RSE dans les écoles de management pour qu'elle ne soit ou ne devienne point un cas, parmi d'autres, d'habile publicité mensongère, conformément à une question plus générale, Can Ethics Be Taught, empruntée au profes- seur de philosophie Robert C. Solomon (1993) qui ouvrait ainsi l'introduction d'Ethics and Exigence : un bel ouvrage aristotélicien, consa- cré à la démonstration d'une faisabilité de la Business Ethics, fondée sur le dépassement des critiques les plus radicales dont il\n"}
{"id": "3323164", "output": "La consécration de la cession de dette par la réforme du 10 février 2016 emporte avec elle son lot d’interrogations. Pourquoi consacrer un tel mécanisme alors que la novation par changement de débiteur et la délégation permettent, peu ou prou, de réaliser exactement la même opération? La perplexité est, en outre, de mise devant cette « cession » qui n’en est pas vraiment une. Lorsqu’une cession intervient, une opération translative de droits est supposée se réaliser car une personne succède à une autre. Tel est le cas dans le cadre de la cession de créance où le créancier originaire peut valablement céder sa créance, sans accord du débiteur, au profit du créancier cessionnaire. Le débiteur cédé est donc tenu à l’égard d’un ratio legis : littéralement, la raison d’être de la loi. Nous défendons l’idée, dans cet article, que les faiblesses attachées au régime juridique d’une institution tiennent parfois plus volontiers à une déconnexion de la règle par rapport à son milieu\n"}
{"id": "3334766", "output": "Les eaux hydrothermales sous-marines sont extrêmement enrichies en manganèse, méthane et hélium. Ces composés se trouvent donc notablement enrichis dans la colonne d'eau située au voisinage d'un site actif. La mission effectuée par le NOOV Boris Petrov du Vernatsky Institut of Geochemistry (Moscou) en 1985 nous a permis d'étudier les profils de manganèse et de méthane à sept stations : quatre le long de la ride médio-atlantique sud (13°20 - 1464'W ; 14°12'S -13°58'W ; 21°28'S -11°37'W ; 19°56'S -11°52'W) et trois le long d'un segment nord de cette même ride (12°24'N -44°58'W ; 13°47'N -44°59'W ; 14°05'N -45°01'W). Des anomalies de concentrations des traceurs de l'hydrothermalisme sont mises en évidence dans les zones nord et sud, bien que l'intensité des pana\n"}
{"id": "3313639", "output": "En mathématiques, le problème de la séparation des éléments d'un ensemble fini dans une séquence u 1... u N est de telle sorte que les distances d(u i, u j) sont petites si et seulement si |i − j| sont aussi petites [12]. Le domaine de recherche de toutes les séquences possibles est trop large pour être explorée manuellement. En effet, le nombre de possibles arrangements de U est égale à N  N × (N − 1) ×.... Ce nombre est over one million pour N  10 et over one billion pour N  13. L'exploration manuelle de telles séquences nécessite donc l'aide de l'ordinateur. Dans cet article, nous décrivons le travail algorithmique qui a conduit à la synthèse de Synopsis Seriation. Sur un niveau conceptuel, le brouillage implique un agent virtuel qui \"écoute\" à l'Input de Synopsis, segmente ses segments en segments temporels, et finalement re-arrange ces segments pour maximiser la similarité auditive entre\n"}
{"id": "3295548", "output": "Les deux ouvrages que l'on se propose d'analyser, Un Nègre à Paris de Bernard Bilin Dadié et Debout-payé de Gauz, ont été écrits à des périodes assez éloignées l'une de l'autre, et il peut initialement sembler difficile d'envisager des parallèles entre deux écrivains de générations si dissemblables. La notion d'exotisme ne doit pas résonner de la même manière pour un livre publié en 1959 et un autre en 2014, même à les lire comme deux ouvrages postcoloniaux. Pourtant, ces deux récits déploient à notre sens, dans des contextes différents, des stratégies comparables dans leur manière de se confronter à la notion d'exotisme. On examinera dans quelle mesure on peut voir cet exotisme à l'oeuvre dans les deux romans, comment il est mis en tension avec le discours ethnographique et comment il est mis à distance par la satire.\n"}
{"id": "3338552", "output": "Dans les pages que consacre Cameron au Carmen contra paganos on ne trouve presque rien de nouveau sur la question de l'identification de la cible du poème. L'essentiel en effet de sa démonstration porte sur l'auteur de ces 122 hexamètres. Elle vise elle-même à confirmer la thèse plus ancienne de L. Cracconi-Rucconi, émise en 1979 et réitérée en 1998, qui pensait que l'auteur en était en Damase et, par conséquent, pour des raisons impérieuses de chronologie liées à la mort de Damase en 384, que la cible ne pouvait qu'en être Prétextat. La démarche me paraît excessivement réductrice.\n"}
{"id": "3339618", "output": "L'imagerie satellitaire est devenue une source incontour- nable de données à fortes valeurs intrinsèques. En effet, ses atouts sont nombreux : grands volumes de données multimodales acquis en un passage au dessus d'une zone géographique large, absence de contrainte de survol, gra- tuité parfois (ex : programme Sentinel de l'Union Européenne) et surtout une forte revisite (5 à 10 jours pour Sentinel-2). Ce dernier avantage offre la possibilité d'ob- tenir des séries temporelles d'images satellitaires (STIS), ce qui autorise le suivi dynamique et l'évolution temporelle des observables. Les STIS sont grandement utilisées dans de nombreux secteurs d'activité importants comme l'agri- culture, l'écologie, la mobilité, la santé, l'évaluation des risques, l'aménagement du territoire, le suivi des forêts et de l'habitat naturel. Cependant, à l'instar de nombreuses applications nécessi- tant de grands volumes de données, les utilisateurs de STIS sont confrontés à un défi important, celui de l'extraction efficient\n"}
{"id": "3339668", "output": "Nous avons étudié la marche 2D dans le plan sagittal de 10 sujets sains. L'approche consiste à détecter les marqueurs placés à des repères anatomiques précis sur le membre inférieur, à extraire les coordonnées 2D et à calculer différents paramètres de marche. Les objectifs de ce projet sont de valider l'utilisation d'une caméra ultra-rapide pour déterminer des paramètres de marche et d'analyser l'intérêt que peut avoir l'utilisation d'une caméra ultra-rapide pour la mesure de paramètres précis au cours du cycle de marche.\n"}
{"id": "3348451", "output": "La culture de l'identité en ligne a changé depuis les premières communautés virtuelles, passant d'un paradigme utopique du village planétaire à un souci de son image qui fait l'objet d'une négociation entre la crainte du traçage identitaire et la pulsion de manifester son existence. L'homo communicans devient pragmaticus devant l'avidité des producteurs de CMO à capturer ses informations personnelles. Or, si « la manipulation de soi dans Internet nous parle de la souffrance ou de la difficulté de l'individu contemporain à être un sujet capable de relever le défi de la gestion de son identité. » (Jauréguiberry 2000 : 149), cette difficulté croissante à protéger son identité n'engendre-t-elle pas une souffrance seconde? Ne pourrait-on pas penser les profils utilisateurs en soi, comme participant de l'économie interne d'un nouveau paradigme communicationnel qui implique de nouvelles postures cognitives et sociales? Quels sont les enjeux de ces médiations numériques de soi sur la communication humaine?\n"}
{"id": "3289133", "output": "Les jeux pédagogiques sont de plus en plus utilisés par les enseignants grâce à leur potentiel pour favoriser l'engagement des apprenants. De plus, leur déploiement est aujourd'hui simplifié par la dissémination des outils numériques (tablettes, ordinateurs) dans les scolaires à l'échelle européenne et mondiale. Cependant, bien que ces plateformes aient en général permis d'étendre les possibilités d'apprentissage et de le favoriser, notamment dans le contexte actuel de pandémie imposant le distanciel, leur utilisation s'accompagne aussi de questions sur les possibilités d'adaptation face aux profils hétérogènes d'apprenants. En effet, dans un contexte où l'interface numérique est le principal support d'accès à l'information, les capacités d'apprentissage peuvent plus ou moins varier en fonction des profils des apprenants et notamment de certains besoins spécifiques (dyslexie, allophonie, daltonisme, etc.). Pour toutes ces raisons, la question de l'apprentissage adaptatif est d'autant plus primordiale à l'ère du numérique et des Environnements Informatiques pour l'App\n"}
{"id": "3274981", "output": "Dans la satire I, 9, Horace se représente en train de se promener comme à son habitude sur la Voie sacrée quand un importun, qui souhaite s’introduire dans le cercle de Mécène, l’accoste. Le poète tente de s’en débarrasser mais, dans les échanges des vers 4 à 21, sa stratégie est mise en échec. En effet, malgré les tentatives du poète pour faire comprendre à son interlocuteur son envie de mettre fin à la politesse, le fâcheux parvient à faire durer l’échange et à s’imposer dans la conversation, réduisant Horace au silence. Les vers 21 à 34 marquent dans la conversation, réduisant Horace au silence. Les vers 21 à 34 marquent un tournant dans l’attitude du poète qui change de stratégie et se montre plus ouvertement menaçant envers le fâcheux. Alors que ce dernier continue d’occuper tout l’espace de parole pour affirmer plus vigoureusement et plus explicitement sa volonté de le repousser. Alors même qu’il contraint Horace à subir sa présence et sa\n"}
{"id": "3360175", "output": "Dans ce travail, on se propose de développer une approche probabiliste plus facile à mettre en oeuvre, qui permet de prévoir la fiabilité de la tenue à la fatigue polycyclique des pièces mécaniques à défauts de surface. La méthode proposée se base, d'une part, sur le critère de fatigue des matériaux à défauts proposé par Nadot et al (2006), et d'autre part, sur l'approche de fiabilité en fatigue multiaxiale proposée récemment par Ben Sghaier et al (2004). Elle tient en compte la dispersion de la taille des défauts. Des simulations élastiques-plastiques sont effectuées pour déterminer la distribution des contraintes autour des défauts. Des calculs ont été effectués pour différentes tailles des défauts et différents niveaux des sollicitations, ce qui a permis d'obtenir les expressions de la pression hydrostatique maximale et de l'amplitude de la cision, par la technique des surfaces des réponses. Le point représentatif du chargement appliqué est transformé en une surface, générée par le tirage aléatoire des tailles des défauts. La fiabilité est calculée par la méthode de\n"}
{"id": "3359677", "output": "Nous présentons une nouvelle stratégie pour la synthèse de grands hydrocarbures aromatiques polycycliques. Elle fait intervenir une variante de la réaction de Perkin qui consiste à assembler des briques élémentaires, i.e. des acides aryl-glyoxys et des acides aryle-acétiques, en précurseurs conjugués flexibles que l'on substitue par des fonctions carboxyliques. La dernière étape de rigidification, par la formation des liaisons C-C manquantes, conduit à la formation des liaisons carbone-carbone manquantes, et en rigidifiant par photocyclisation lors de la dernière étape, une famille de phénacènes tétra-carboxy-hélicènes a pu être obtenue, avec des longueurs allant de huit à quatorze noyaux benzéniques fusionnés, substitués de manière centrale, l'association de trois briques élémentaires par réaction de Perkin, et en rigidifiant par photocyclisation lors de la dernière étape, une famille de phénacènes tétra-carboxy-hélicènes\n"}
{"id": "3362472", "output": "Dans cet article, un outil numérique est présenté pour analyser et dimensionner un concept innovant de pare-blocs sous impacts rocheux. Cet outil a été développé, qui permet de calculer l'impact unilatéral entre un projectile rigide de forme sphérique ou cubique et une structure déformable. Cette description simplifiée du projectile permet d'éviter les incertitudes dans la modélisation du bloc rocheux et du contact. Ce traitement simplifié de l'impact permet d'éviter les calibrations lourdes de frottements. De plus, le projectile est supposé impacter la structure perpendiculairement en négligeant les frottements. Ce traitement simplifié de l'impact permet d'éviter les calibrations lourdes de paramètres d'impact, en raison de sa robustesse et de sa simplicité de mise en œuvre dans un code aux éléments finis.\n"}
{"id": "3362112", "output": "Nous étudions l'érosion d'un tube par de l'eau. Le tube est supposé cylindrique et l'on néglige les phénomènes de sédimentation et de gravité. Ce qui nous permet de faire une hypothèse d'axisymétrie. Les fissures étant mince et l'ouvrage épais, on se place dans des cas d'écoulement allongés ; avec un rayon petit devant la longueur. Ce qui permet après une intégration sur la section d'obtenir un système d'équations monodimensionnelles instationnaire. Il faut penser à fermer notre système par des choix de modèles rhéologiques et phénoménologiques (par exemple l'expression de la contrainte de cisaillement).\n"}
{"id": "3361141", "output": "Nous considérons un problème classique de réflexion des ondes acoustiques à l'interface entre deux matériaux visco-poroélastiques saturés. En faisant une décomposition en ondes planes ascendantes et descendantes, nous exprimons explicitement les polarisations pour toutes les ondes (P-, Biot-, Sv- et Sh-). Par analogie au cas élastique, les coefficients de réflexion-transmission-conversion (RTC) peuvent alors être obtenus en fonction de la fréquence et de l'angle d'incidence. Avec une formulation matricielle simple, l'algorithme présenté se prête bien à une implémentation numérique, elle permet aussi d'obtenir une approximation analytique des coefficients RTC pour une incidence normale en basse fréquence. Pour des basses fréquences, une approximation analytique est obtenue pour les coefficients RTC en incidence normale. Des simulations numériques montrent que le terme du second ordre en (quotient de deux déterminants) ne peut pas être systématiquement négligé, contrairement à une\n"}
